Payparity (#80)
alphabetworkers/alphabetworkersunion.org: frontend/content/press/releases/pay-parity.md

---

> title: 'AWU Letter Demanding Google Immediately Give Back Pay to Underpaid Contractors'
> linktitle: 'AWU Letter Demanding Google Immediately Give Back Pay to Underpaid Contractors'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'AWU Letter Calls On Alphabet to Deliver Pay Parity For All Temporary Workers'
linktitle: 'AWU Letter Calls On Alphabet to Deliver Pay Parity For All Temporary Workers'
```

Let's make this a closer match for the original headline at payparity.org (or at least refer more accurately to "temporary workers" rather than "contractors").

Google segregates its workers into a “[two-tiered workforce](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/dec/11/google-tvc-full-time-employees-training-document).” By offering one tier, the Full-Time Employees (FTEs), high pay, excellent benefits and frequent morale-boosting mixers, Google presents itself as a benevolent company to its employees and thus, the world. 

The second tier of 130,000 Temps, Vendors and Contractors (TVCs) are underpaid, frequently only offered unaffordable healthcare by contracting companies, and barred from Google-sponsored events. Unbeknownst to the public, TVCs can even be fired for publicly claiming that they work for Google. 

The disregard for this majority of workers is perfectly reflected in the fact that it would cost Google $100 million to pay hundreds of contractors across the globe what they are legally owed—an insignificant amount considering [Google's trillion dollar valuation](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/google-parent-alphabet-joins-1-trillion-in-market-value-for-first-time-2020-01-16). Yet, Google has decided to prioritize avoiding negative press over improving wages and thus, quality of life, for thousands of their workers. 

> From its involvement in [the military industrial complex](https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2020/12/22/google-promised-not-to-use-its-ai-in-weapons-so-why-is-alphabet-investing-in-ai-satellite-startups-with-military-contracts/?sh=e757abb7595c), [to failing to hold executives accountable for their sexual misconduct](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/25/technology/google-sexual-harassment-andy-rubin.html?module=inline), from [misleading consumers about location data](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2021/apr/16/google-partially-misled-consumers-over-collecting-location-data-australian-court-finds) to [relying on a “shadow workforce” to minimize operating costs](https://www.protocol.com/blaize/browser-fingerprint?redirect=%2Fgoogle-contractors-forced-unemployment), Google has continually shrugged its shoulders at the grave harms it causes for consumers and workers alike.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From its involvement in [the military industrial complex](https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2020/12/22/google-promised-not-to-use-its-ai-in-weapons-so-why-is-alphabet-investing-in-ai-satellite-startups-with-military-contracts/?sh=e757abb7595c) to [failing to hold executives accountable for their sexual misconduct](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/25/technology/google-sexual-harassment-andy-rubin.html?module=inline), from [misleading consumers about location data](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2021/apr/16/google-partially-misled-consumers-over-collecting-location-data-australian-court-finds) to [relying on a “shadow workforce” to minimize operating costs](https://www.protocol.com/blaize/browser-fingerprint?redirect=%2Fgoogle-contractors-forced-unemployment), Google has continually shrugged its shoulders at the grave harms it causes for consumers and workers alike.  
```

We should probably make this Discord-suggested edit here.
